Dear Mr Moseley,

I write with regard to Mr Sanjay Ramburn who is a tenant of yours and a fellow member of the London Renters Union. We are a membership organisation representing over 7000 renters across London, supporting each other through legal action, advocacy, media work and protest. I am writing to you as Executive Director of Governance, as the person responsible for L&Q’s treatment of Mr Ramburn.

Over the past twelve years, L&Q have repeatedly  failed to deal with serious disrepair, overcrowding and lack of disability access in Mr. Ramburn’s home. This caused serious damage to the tenants’ physical and mental health, both the adults and the children, including breathing issues, skin issues, injuries, tinnitus, anxiety, depression and suicidal ideation. I am worried that L&Q actions may have been in breach of the Equality Act 2010, as their severe maladministration and malgovernance has forced a disabled renter to live in wholly unsuitable, inaccessible and actively dangerous accommodation - with this pattern of behaviour by L&Q being something LRU has observed time and time again with L&Q’s disabled tenants.

The issues faced by the family over this time have been unrelenting. There have been four ceiling collapses in his home, caused by leaks in the flat. One of these collapses landed on the family, injuring three people and required the family to seek urgent medical attention. Mr. Ramburn’s son could not comfortably walk for months after. The family lived for two and a half years without electricity, save for a single plug in the kitchen. They have also experienced severe damp and mould, making the only bedroom in the house unusable for years. As a result, the entire family of five lived in just the living room. You can find photographic documentation of this in the Metro article sent to you previously. His children have long term health issues resulting from the mould and damp. Finally, the upstairs neighbour has been racially abusive to Mr Ramburn and his family, threatening to kill him on multiple occasions. 

Mr Ramburn first raised these issues with L&Q when he first moved in in 2013. In the last eleven years, they have not been significantly addressed. Further details are in the letter you received directly from the London Renters Union.

After years of being ignored, the London Renters Union held a peaceful protest outside L&Q offices, seeking a meeting with a manager who could help resolve these issues. As a result, LRU had a meeting with directors Vicky Sanderson and John Lumley, who made the following promises:
An acceptance that significant compensation was due and a follow up meeting to discuss our proposed compensation amount of £72,000 - the amount Mr Ramburn has paid while the property has been unlivable. Currently the complaints process is only offering £2k, far lower than any amount which would be won through legal action.
Temporary rehousing of Mr. Ramburn and his family in a two-bed property in his current area while the major works are carried out, as a goodwill gesture of respite.

Over the following two weeks, your staff went back on both of these promises, failing Mr Ramburn in the most spectacular way imaginable. I am writing to you to ask that you ensure L&Q keeps its promises to Mr Ramburn and his family, after twelve years of severe failures.

I'd also like to draw your attention to the disability element of this case. M. Ramburn’s family moved in with him following an accident which rendered him disabled and needing full-time care with daily tasks (I.e. showering, walking, getting dressed, going outside). Mr Ramburn’s wife moved in as a carer, along with her dependent children. The medical need created a situation of overcrowding.

I understand you are responsible for governance at L&Q. This means you have a direct responsibility for ensuring L&Q complies with the Equality Act by not discriminating against disabled renters and their family carers, as highlighted in a recent letter to you by Disability Rights UK. I also understand you undertake efforts to protect vulnerable people through your work with the RLNI and your role as a School Governor. On the back of this I hope you understand the urgent need for the situation to be made right for Mr Ramburn’s children who are having their education disrupted by L&Q’s inaction. In the face of failures by your colleagues I hope you will stand up for what is right and do the following:

1. Rehouse Mr Ramburn and his family permanently in a ground floor flat with bedrooms for his children who act as his carers
2. Appropriate compensation for the 12 years the flat was unlivable and the corresponding negative effects on the mental and physical wellbeing of Mr Ramburn and his family.

Please reply to me and to the London Renters Union (cc’ed) to let us know when you will be actioning the above.

Yours sincerely,
